[docs] new marketplace docs (#6057)
ToolJet/ToolJet: docs/versioned_docs/version-2.3.0/contributing-guide/marketplace/creating-a-plugin.md

---
id: creating-a-plugin
title: 'Marketplace: Creating plugins'
---

# Marketplace: Creating plugins 

## What are plugins

> ToolJet has been developed with a focus on extensibility. Developers can expand the capabilities of ToolJet using JavaScript through plugins. Currently, plugins are limited to connectors, such as data source connectors like PostgreSQL, MySQL, Twilio, Stripe, and more. These plugins will be available on the Marketplace.

Author: ```suggestion
ToolJet’s development has centered on extensibility, allowing developers to utilize plugins that expand their capabilities. Currently, these plugins are limited to connectors, including data source connectors like PostgreSQL, MySQL, Twilio, Stripe, and more. Using JavaScript/TypeScript, developers can develop plugins to enhance ToolJet's functionality and publish these plugins on the ToolJet Marketplace.
```

- **testConnection**: When adding a new data source to a ToolJet application, the connection can be tested. The testConnection method is used to test the connection, and it takes in sourceOptions as input, which represents the source metadata. The method tests the connection by trying to fetch the authenticated user and returns a ConnectionTestResult object indicating whether the connection was successful.

  :::note
  Not all data sources may support testing connections. If it's not applicable for your data source, you can disable the test connection feature by adding "customTesting": true to your plugin's manifest.json.
  :::

- **getConnection**: This method is a helper function that returns an authenticated octokit client, which is utilized to send requests to the GitHub API. It takes in sourceOptions as input, representing the source metadata, and returns an authenticated octokit client.

> :::caution Removing a plugin
> To remove a plugin from the marketplace, you can simply remove the object entry of the plugin from the **plugins.json**(`ToolJet/server/src/assets/marketplace/plugins.json`) and then re-run the build commands.
> :::

Author: ```suggestion
## Removing a plugin
To remove a plugin from the marketplace, you can simply remove the object entry of the plugin from the **plugins.json**(`ToolJet/server/src/assets/marketplace/plugins.json`) and then re-run the build commands.

## Publish a plugin
To release a plugin, submit a pull request on ToolJet's GitHub Repository after creating it. The ToolJet team will review the pull request, and if approved, the plugin will be included and published in the next release.
```

      },
      "state": {
        "label": "State",
        "key": "state",
        "type": "dropdown",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins col-4",
        "description": "Single select dropdown for choosing state",
        "list": [
          {
            "value": "open",
            "name": "Open"
          },
          {
            "value": "closed",
            "name": "Closed"
          },
          {
            "value": "all",
            "name": "All"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
```
The operations.json file specifies the available operations that can be executed on the data source. It provides details about the operation type, required fields to execute the operation, and the data type of each field. The label, key, type, description, and hint properties are used to define the specific fields and their types required to establish a connection with the API or data source.

## Step 4: Add the npm package of Gitub to the plugin dependencies

- Change directory to the plugin directory where the npm package needs to be installed and then install the package
  ```bash
  # change directory to the plugin directory and install the npm package

>   cd plugins/github

Author: ```suggestion
```
